.TH MST_PRINT 3 2005/05/26 "Libmseed API"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Printing of Trace information.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libmseed.h>

.BI "void   \fBmst_printtracelist\fP ( TraceGroup *" mstg ", flag " timeformat ",
.BI "                            flag " details ", flag " gaps " );

.BI "void   \fBmst_printgaplist\fP ( TraceGroup *" msgt ", flag " timeformat ",
.BI "                          double *" mingap ", double *" maxgap " );

.BI "char  *\fBmst_srcname\fP ( Trace *" mst ", char *" srcname " );"
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmst_printtracelist\fP prints a formatted list of the Trace segments
in the given TraceGroup to stdout.  If the \fIdetails\fP flag is
greater than 0 the sample rate and sample count are printed for each
trace.  If the \fIgaps\fP flag is greater than zero the time gap from
the previous Trace (if the source name matches) is printed.

\fBmst_printgaplist\fP prints a formatted list of the gaps between
Trace segments in the given TraceGroup to stdout.  If \fImingap\fP or
\fImaxgap\fP is not NULL their values will be enforced and only
gaps/overlaps matching their implied criteria will be printed.

The \fItimeformat\fP argument for both \fBmst_printtracelist\fP and
\fBmst_printgaplist\fP controls the format of the resulting time
strings.  Possible formats are:

.nf
0 : SEED time format (2005,146,00:00:00.000000)
1 : ISO time format (2005-05-26T00:00:00.000000)
2 : Epoch time, seconds since the epoch (1117065600.00000000)
.fi

Both \fBmst_printtracelist\fP and \fBmst_printgaplist\fP represent
time overlaps as negative gaps.

\fBmst_srcname\fP generates a source name string in the
format: 'NET_STA_LOC_CHAN' and stores it in \fIsrcname\fP.  The memory
pointed to by \fIsrcname\fP must have enough room for the resulting
string.

.SH GAP/OVERLAP RULES
The existence of gaps and overlaps is implicit in the structure of the
TraceGroup, no special processing is done to detect gaps and overlaps
in these routines.

The value of a gap is calculated as the difference between the time of
the last sample before the gap and the time of the first sample after
the gap.  No sample 'coverage' time is included.

The value of an overlap is calculated as the time between two samples
which represent the maximum amount of timeseries overlap.

.SH RETURN VALUES
\fBmst_srcname\fP returns a pointer to the resulting string or NULL on
error.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBms_intro(3)\fP

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Chad Trabant
IRIS Data Management Center
.fi
