.TH MST_INIT 3 2004/11/22 "Libmseed API"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Initializing and freeing Trace and TraceGroup structures

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libmseed.h>

.BI "Trace      *\fBmst_init\fP ( Trace *" mst " );

.BI "void        \fBmst_free\fP ( Trace **" ppmst " ); 

.BI "TraceGroup *\fBmst_initgroup\fP ( TraceGroup *" mstg " );

.BI "void        \fBmst_freegroup\fP ( TraceGroup **" ppmstg " ); 
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmst_init\fP will initialize a Trace structure.  If the \fImst\fP
parameter is NULL a new structure will be allocated.  If the \fImst\fP
parameter is not NULL the structure will be cleared and any memory
allocated for the Trace.datasamples and Trace.private members will
be freed.

\fBmst_free\fP will free all memory associated with a Trace structure
and set the structure pointer (*\fIppmst\fP) to 0.  This includes any
memory pointed to by the \fIprivate\fP member of the Trace structure.

\fBmst_initgroup\fP will initialize a TraceGroup structure.  If the
\fImstg\fP parameter is NULL a new structure will be allocated.  If
the \fImstg\fP parameter is not NULL the structure will be cleared and
any all associated Trace structures will be freed.

\fBmst_freegroup\fP will free all memory associated with a TraceGroup
structure and set the structure pointer (*\fIppmstg\fP) to 0.

.SH RETURN VALUES
\fBmst_init\fP returns a pointer to the Trace structure initialized on
success or NULL on error.

\fBmst_initgroup\fP returns a pointer to the TraceGroup structure
initialized on success or NULL on error.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBms_intro(3)\fP.

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Chad Trabant
IRIS Data Management Center
.fi
