.TH MST_ADDMSR 3 2005/09/23 "Libmseed API"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Add time coverage and data samples to Trace structures

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libmseed.h>

.BI "int    *\fBmst_addmsr\fP ( Trace *" mst ", MSrecord *" msr ", flag " whence " );

.BI "int     \fBmst_addspan\fP ( Trace *" mst ", hptime_t " starttime ", hptime_t " endtime ",
.BI "                      void *" datasamples ", int " numsamples ",
.BI "                      char " sampletype ",  flag " whence " );

.BI "Trace  *\fBmst_addmsrtogroup\fP ( TraceGroup *" mstg ", MSrecord *" msr ",
.BI "                            double " timetol ", double " sampratetol " );

.BI "Trace  *\fBmst_addtracetogroup\fP ( TraceGroup *" mstg ", Trace *" mst " );"
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines provides different ways of adding time coverage to
Trace objects.  A common way to organize Trace objects is with a
TraceGroup.  The \fBmst_addmsrtogroup\fP provides a convenient way to add
MSrecord data to a TraceGroup, hiding many of the details of Trace
matching and bookkeeping.

\fBmst_addmsr\fP will add the time coverage from a MSrecord to a
Trace.  The start or end time will be updated and data samples copied
if they exist.  No checking is done to verify that the record matches
the trace in any way.  If \fIwhence\fP is 1 the MSrecord coverage will
be added at the end of the Trace.  If \fIwhence\fP is 2 the MSrecord
coverage will be added at the beginning of the Trace.

\fBmst_addspan\fP does the same thing as \fBmsr_addmsr\fP except that
time coverage and data samples are explicitly provided.  See
\fBms_time(3)\fP for a description of the high precision epoch time
format needed for \fIstarttime\fP and \fIendtime\fP.  See the
\fBWaveform Data\fP section of \fBms_intro(3)\fP for a description of
data sample representation.

\fBmst_addmsrtogroup\fP adds time coverage from the specified MSrecord
to the first adjacent Trace found in the specified TraceGroup.
\fBmst_findadjacent(3)\fP is used with the specified sample rate and
time tolerances to find an adjacent trace, see
\fBmst_findadjacent(3)\fP for further details.  If no adjacent Trace
is found a new Trace will be added to the TraceGroup.

\fBmst_addtracetogroup\fP adds a Trace structure to a TraceGroup
structure.  The Trace is added at the end of the Trace chain.

.SH RETURN VALUES
\fBmst_addmsr\fP and \fBmst_addspan\fP return 0 on success and -1 on
error.

\fBmst_addmsrtogroup\fP returns a pointer to the Trace updated or 0 on
error.

\fBmst_addtracetogroup\fP returns a pointer to the Trace added or 0 on
error.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBms_intro(3)\fP, \fBmst_init(3)\fP, \fBmst_findadjacent(3)\fP and
\fBms_time(3)\fP.

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Chad Trabant
IRIS Data Management Center
.fi
