.TH MST_FINDMATCH 3 2005/10/26 "Libmseed API"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Searching a TraceGroup for specific Trace structures.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libmseed.h>

.BI "Trace  *\fBmst_findmatch\fP ( Trace *" startmst ", char *" network ",
.BI "                        char *" station ", char *" location ",
.BI "                        char *" channel " );

.BI "Trace  *\fBmst_findadjacent\fP ( TraceGroup *" mstg ", flag *" whence ",
.BI "                           char *" network ", char *" station ",
.BI "                           char *" location ", char *" channel ",
.BI "                           double " samprate ", double " sampleratetol ", 
.BI "                           hptime_t " starttime ", hptime_t " endtime ",
.BI "                           double " timetol ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmst_findmatch\fP traverses a Trace chain starting at \fIstartmst\fP
and returns the first entry that matches the source name identifiers.
A calling program commonly calls this routine in a loop in order to
find all matching Traces in a TraceGroup.

\fBmst_findadjacent\fP finds the first entry in the TraceGroup pointed
to by \fImstg\fP that matches the given source name identifiers and is
time adjacent to the time coverage described by the \fIsamprate\fP,
\fIstarttime\fP and \fIendtime\fP.  See \fBms_time(3)\fP for a
description of the high precision epoch time format needed for
\fIstarttime\fP and \fIendtime\fP.

The tolerance for sample rate and time matching can also be specified.
If \fIsampratetol\fP is -1.0 the default tolerance of abs(1-sr1/sr2) <
0.0001 is used.  If \fItimetol\fP is -1.0 the default time tolerance
of 1/2 the sample period will be used.  If \fIsampratetol\fP or
\fItimetol\fP is -2.0 the respective tolerance check will not be
performed.  If time tolerance is not checked \fIwhence\fP will be set
to whichever end fits best.  The time tolerance is specified in
seconds.

When an adjacent Trace is found the \fIwhence\fP flag will be set to
indicate where the indicated time span is adjacent in the following
way:
.sp
.nf
1: time span fits at the end of the Trace
2: time span fits at the beginning of the Trace
.fi

.SH RETURN VALUES
\fBmst_findmatch\fP returns a pointer to the matching Trace structure 
or 0 if no match found or error.

\fBmst_findadjacent\fP returns a pointer to the adjacent Trace
structure and the \fIwhence\fP flag is set when an adjacent Trace is
found or 0 when no adjacent Trace is found.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBms_intro(3)\fP, \fBmst_init(3)\fP and \fBms_time(3)\fP.

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Chad Trabant
IRIS Data Management Center
.fi
